---
layout: recipe
title: Croissants
---

## Ingredients

* 500 grams strong white bread flour, plus extra for dusting
* 10 grams salt
* 80 grams sugar
* 10 grams instant yeast
* 300 milliliters cool water
* 300 grams chilled unsalted butter
* 1 medium egg to glaze

## Directions

Put the flour into a bowl of a mixer fitted with a dough hook. Add the
salt and sugar to one side of the bowl and the yeast to the other. Add
the water and mix on a slow speed for 2 minutes, then on a medium speed
for 6 minutes. The dough should be fairly stiff.

Tip the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and shape it into a
ball. Dust with flour, put into a clean plastic bag and chill in the
fridge for an hour.

On a lightly floured surface, roll out your dough to a rectangle, about
60 x 20 centimeters; it should be about 1 centimeter thick. Flatten the
butter to a rectangle, about 40 x 19 centimeters, by bashing it with a
rolling pin. Put the butter on the dough so that it covers the bottom
two-thirds of the dough. Make sure that it is positioned neatly and
comes almost to the edges.

Fold the exposed dough at the top down over one-third of the butter. Now
gently cut off the exposed bit of butter, without going through the
dough, and put it on the top of the dough you have just folded down.
Fold the bottom half of the dough up. You will now have a sandwich of
two layers of butter and three of dough. Pinch the edges lightly to seal
in the butter. Put the dough back in the plastic bag and chill in the
fridge for an hour to harden the butter.

Take the dough out of the bag and put it on the lightly floured work
surface with a short end towards you. Roll into a rectangle, about 60 x
20 centimeters, as before. This time fold up one-third of the dough and
then fold the top third down on top to make a neat square to make a neat
square. This is called a single turn. Put the dough back into the
plastic bag and chill for another hour. Repeat this stage twice more,
putting the dough back into the fridge for an hour between turns.

Your dough now needs to be left in the fridge for 8 hours, or overnight,
to rest and rise slightly.

When you are ready to shape the croissants, line 2 or 3 baking trays
with baking parchment or silicone paper.

Put the dough on a lightly floured surface and roll out to a rectangle,
a little more than 42 centimeters long and 30 centimeters wide; it
should be about 7mm thick. Trim the edges to neaten them.

Cut the rectangle lengthways into 2 strips, then cut triangles along the
length of each strip; these should be 12 centimeters wide at the base
and about 15 centimeters high (from the middle of the base to the tip).
Once you have cut the first triangle, you can use it as a template for
the rest. You should get 6 triangles from each strip.

Before rolling, hold down the wide base of the triangle and gently tug
the opposite thin end to cause a slight tension in the dough. Now
starting at the thick end of the triangle, roll up into a croissant. You
will have 12 medium-sized croissants. For a traditional crescent shape,
turn the ends in towards each other slightly.

Put the croissants on the prepared baking trays, leaving space in
between them to expand; allow 4 -- 6 per tray. Put each tray inside a
clean plastic bag and leave the croissants to rise at cool room
temperature (65-75° F) until at least doubled in size. This should take
about 2 hours.

Heat your oven to 400° F.

Lightly whisk the egg with a pinch of salt to make an egg wash. Brush
the top and sides of the croissants with the eggwash. Bake for 15 -- 20
minutes or until golden brown. Cool on a wire rack. Eat warm.
