---
layout: recipe
title: Deep Dish Pizza Crust
---

## Ingredients

* 2 1/2 cups flour
* 2 teaspoons salt
* 1 package (.25 oz) instant yeast
* 1 1/4 cups water
* 2 teaspoons olive oil

## Directions

Combine flour, salt, yeast, water, and oil in a large bowl. Mix with
hands or a wooden spoon until no dry flour remains. The bowl should be
at least 4 to 6 times to volume of the dough to account for rising.

Cover bowl tightly with plastic wrap, making sure that edges are
well-sealed, then let rest on the countertop for at least 8 hours and up
to 24. Dough should rise dramatically and fill bowl.

Sprinkle the top of the dough lightly with flour, then transfer it to a
well-floured work surface. Divide dough into two pieces and form each
into a ball by holding it with well-floured hands and tucking the dough
underneath itself, rotating it until it forms a tight ball.

Pour 1 to 2 tablespoons of oil in the bottom of two 10-inch cast iron
skillets or round cake pans. Place 1 ball of dough in each pan and turn
to coat evenly with oil. Using a flat palm, press the dough around the
pan, flattening it slightly and spreading oil around the entire bottom
and edges of the pan. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let the dough
sit at room temperature for two hours. After the first hour, adjust an
oven rack to the middle position and turn the oven to 475Â°F.

After two hours, the dough should mostly fill the pan up to the edges.
Use your fingertips to press it around until it fills in every corner,
popping any large bubbles that appear. Lift up one edge of the dough to
let any air bubbles underneath escape and repeat, moving around the
dough until there are no air bubbles left underneath and the dough is
evenly spread around the pan.

Bake for 7 minutes. Add desired toppings and bake again until the top is
golden brown and bubbly, another 7 - 8 minutes.
